(mysterious and pensive synthesizer music)
In our previous interview with Philip Coppens,
we spoke about the ancient alien question.
I find this subject not only fascinating,
but critical to understand,
because the human species is beginning to ask new questions
as to our origins and as to the presence
of extraterrestrial life on Earth.
In this interview, Philip speaks of Erich von Daniken's
newest book titled Odyssey of the Gods.
In these pages, von Daniken speaks of the notion
that what the Greeks called gods were in fact
advanced beings that had been in a ruling position
for millennia, back to the time of Atlantis,
which Plato speaks of.
This brings a new light to the subject
of Greek mythology and our history.
Philip, I'm so happy you were able to talk to me
on behalf of Erich because he's up in his 70s now,
and outside of Ancient Aliens, he's really not found
or out and about much on camera anymore,
and you have worked very intimately together.
You have not only a similar basis of information,
but you actually edited this book.
And so, as a surrogate for him,
and also you have so much texture to add on your own,
I'm intrigued because to me,
mythology never had a big place.
I mean, for a lot of people, they live for mythology.
I'd make up my own stories.
So, we're learning as the decades go on,
mythology is there for a reason.
It's based on something, and Odyssey of the Gods,
can you give us an idea first of all,
a kind of round perspective
on why Erich chose to write this book?
Well, I think there are two reasons.
One of them is that today we do see
as if these mythologies, these Greek legends,
are ancient science fiction, and they're not.
That is precisely what Erich is trying to do.
But also, Erich throughout his life,
has really been focusing so much on obscure places.
Places where probably nobody would ever be able to go.
Unknown caves in the deepest parts of Ecuador.
Nobody can follow him there, but each one of us,
and specifically his European audience,
is able to go to Greece.
We've also grown up with Greece,
we really feel that Greece is part of us.
We see Greece as this cradle of civilization,
we feel that Greece is there and always has been,
that they are like us.
And guess what, they are not really.
And that is really what Erich is trying to do
with his book of Odyssey of the Gods.
He's trying to make this clear that
what we think we know about the ancient Greeks
really is not at all what we think is the case here.
So, whereas we think that the ancient Greeks
were rational people, whereas we think
that they were very much into these myths
which were kinda like, as I said, ancient science fiction.
What they really are is a memory,
something which they feel that have
to share with their people.
And so, Greece is at this threshold,
a very interesting threshold,
between prehistory and history, because even though
obviously the ancient Egyptians, the Sumerians,
so many cultures were writing before,
with the Greeks what we have is this volume of material.
We really have hundreds if not thousands
of written pages about what they're talking about.
And the very first thing we do,
is when we enter the part of history,
is that we're beginning to say,
"Well, all of that is not true, it's not fiction."
So it's not something
which we should be considering as history.
And Erich is going into that,
and really saying, "Um, be careful here."
because really what we are saying is that
this is part of prehistory, this isn't science fiction.
This is something which was written down
because the ancient Greeks felt it was important.
This is something which they considered to be real,
considered to be part of their history,
and hence, why we have labeled
this category of legends and myths,
which again, we treat as science fiction,
but definitely the Greeks didn't.
And we have to probably take
into consideration here also,
that while there were many documents
that were left behind by the Greeks,
at the same time, some of their tradition
was also inherited through the Egyptian lineage.
A lot of the gods we know through the Egyptian lineage
simply have a change of names in through
the Greek era and then the Roman era.
And so, this is passed on,
very highly documented information.
One part of Erich's book was saying that
the Greeks had already,
the legend was full within the culture.
Some of the direct memories were beginning to fade
that they had been able to glean a lot
from the Egyptians prior to them.
And one thing that keeps coming through is,
give us a definition of what the gods actually are,
because Erich spends a lot of time on this.
(chuckles) Well, you know the gods in a nutshell
is somebody who is higher than us.
Somebody who was able to do certain things
which none of us were allegedly able to do.
And to actually jump civilization a bit,
and go to The Bible, we think that The Bible
is all about morality, that every story there is
is supposed to be saying something about what "God" is.
And when you actually start looking at The Bible,
you're beginning to see that some of these things
are just stories which the Jews had with them
which said, "Well, this is interesting."
This shows you that there is more
to this framework than anything else.
And so the same thing is happening in ancient Greece
whereby they're actually saying, "Well, this is about gods,
"but we don't mean God with a big G necessarily."
We're meaning here a class of beings who are
of another realm, of another extraordinary capability,
even within the physical realm.
And then you have the heroes.
Then you have those people
who are somehow simply identified through lineage
as being deemed to be descendants of these creatures
who were at one point here on planet earth.
And so, what you have in the Greek mythology
is stories of heroes, and Erich starts off with Jason.
Jason is this guy who is of royal descent,
who knows certain things,
and together with a bunch of his mates,
he is able to gather them all around and say,
"OK, let's go to this place,
"and in this place,we are actually going to find
"something which is extraordinary,
"something called the Golden Fleece."
Then Erich says, "OK, what is the Golden Fleece?
"What do we know about this artifact?"
When you start reading the modern translations,
what you actually have is that it pretty much seems
to be nothing more or less than,
as he calls it, a piece of fur.
And so, why would a few dozens of people,
50 in the end, be interested in a piece of fur?
What Erich does is he begins to go into it,
he begins to translate, he begins
to really come to the core of this.
And he realizes that Jason is talking
about something completely differently.
It's not a piece of fur,
it's something which he knows about,
an artifact which allegedly is able to fly,
and he wants it because of that very capability.
There are people around him who are going to
go with him and say, "Um, excuse me.
"I think I'm probably a person who is able
"to fly or navigate or pilot this object."
And so they say, "Yep, you can come along as well."
At the end what you have is 50 people
who go off in search of an artifact which is able to fly.
The reason why Jason is interested with this
or takes up this mission, is because he knew about this
through various traditions of saying,
"OK, this was something left behind by the gods.
"This was something which was there."
So what we have is, family history if you want
of artifacts which at one point were here on planet earth,
or are still here on planet earth,
and descendants of that lineage
going in search of them and feeling comfortable
that they will be able to recover them
and take them with them.
And that is far different from this idea
that somehow we have ancient authors
who are going to write about deities as morality lessons.
There is really no morality lesson
in Jason and the Argonauts.
I mean, there might be some morality lessons,
as in stick together-
Plus, it's an adventure.
Yes, stick together, but it is not written as such.
It is written because it's an extraordinary account
by the ancient Greek people, for the ancient Greek people
saying this is somewhere between us
and somewhere between our ancestors, the gods.
This is kind of like what happened then,
what some of our ancestors were doing.
That I think is something which is very new
and a new take on the ancient Greek accounts.
And you talk about hybridization
within this story quite a bit as well.
And this is something where we start looking very directly
to the story of, that you've written about as well,
Ancient Aliens, our last month's interview.
The Ancient Alien Question, and many many,
I mean hundreds of books have been written
on the subject of whether or not ancient aliens
and aliens did exist, and he is saying essentially
that those beings that came here,
of which there is evidence for throughout history,
physically and in literature,
did exist and are the basis for the hybridized humans.
Like Jason and the Argonauts, these are the best of,
these are superhuman young men
that gathered together that had traits
beyond what the populace had from what I understand.
Is that correct?
That's definitely in the same tradition.
Again, as in The Bible, as in so many other cultures,
you have, not all cultures, but definitely Greek culture
has this idea that the gods were here
and that they intermingled with us.
That somehow we are,
not necessarily an experiment by them,
not necessarily some lab experiment.
But that definitely that the gods
couldn't keep certain things away from our ancestors,
and that the end result of this was,
that there were this kind of hybrid species.
Some of which reached out, some of which
may not have been able to procreate to begin with,
but also, definitely according to the Greek traditions,
that there were these descendants living amongst us,
or to some extent, that we were
descendants of these beings as well.
There are various traditions.
Like with the war of the titans, there is,
if you go into the minutia, you really can get lost
because there are diverging ideas
as to who precisely was descended from who,
and obviously as time goes on,
this becomes a far more difficult picture.
But the overall conclusion and the one important conclusion,
is that the gods were sexually active
with people of this planet.
Humans.
And that definitely there were heroes as a result
who were definitely at one point amongst us,
and did extraordinary things.
And that, to some extent, we also
carry this gene amongst us.
Some of it more powerful than others,
and very much like the idea of, are there descendants?
If Jesus and Mary Magdalene were married,
are there descendants?
And the answer is, yes, if they were married,
there are millions of us who carry this gene.
And the same is really true for anything else,
except that you are confronted
with thousands and thousands of more years
at what point this was happening.
So, this idea that we are a hybrid species
is definitely, once again, something which the Greeks
seem to have been, but at some point also,
don't seem to have been, aware of.
And specifically, the importance of why people
like Homer and various other people
are beginning to write down these myths,
is because they want to educate, teach their own people
into saying, "This is how it happened.
"You might not know this, you might not remember this,
"but this is really the way it was,
"and here it is on a plate, offered to you,
"for everybody to read and to remember where we came from."
Yeah, a wonderful gift to pass down.
And now we have people like Erich and yourself
and others who are even expanding on it from other texts
that, of course, Homer didn't have access to at the time.
And one of the things that keeps popping up
among these hybrids are also these
species that, like a centaur for example,
where you're looking at crossbreeding between species.
This comes up in the work of other people,
such as Dolores Cannon, and a lot of the people
that she's put under hypnosis in the times of Atlantis.
What she does go into, and we'll,
I want to go into that in a bit,
and also the subject of giants.
In fact, I wrote this down here,
they spoke of, there was said to have been
4,090,000 giants .
that had existed on the earth at one time
Put that into some kind of perspective for us.
When you were looking at gods, are the gods the giants?
Are the giants the hybrid offspring
of humans and ETs, so to speak?
There definitely seems to be the case, and again,
let's go back to The Bible because it's something
which everybody is quite familiar with.
You have a very normal story there about how,
basically, the gods come from above,
see the beauty of ,
the female gender of mankind,
decides to mate with it,
and in The BIble, you have very specific information
about how the end result of this
is something which has gigantic heads, which is larger.
Which actually means that women
who tried to give birth to this, some of them died.
Sometimes both child and mother died,
but in some instances, our ancestors began to realize
that by applying a Caesarean section,
everything will be better, will be OK
for both mother and child.
Now, when you jump forward in time,
you actually see that when Moses
is running around ancient Israel,
and is trying to get to Jerusalem,
he gets confronted with tribe upon tribe upon tribe
who are descendants of these giants.
Raphaeim, they have all various names,
and to a large extent,
they are all descendants of these species.
And you also see that even though they're quite identical,
they also have very specific things in the sense that
it seems almost as if the more they inbred,
the purer the giant genome remained
whereas if you really start being looser
with your tribe boundaries, the more human,
the more like us the end result seemed to have become.
And the same things seems to have happened
in Greece, though again,
the Greeks have all of this information indirectly.
As you were saying, they are a species with amnesia.
Something happened in Greece which is very interesting,
and it happens throughout the Mediterranean basin.
Roughly around 1500, 1200 B.C.,
Thera exploded and it made the end
of the Minoan civilization.
And because it was so close to Greece,
the same thing seems to have applied to Greece.
You see that places like Mycenia and various other places
were just completely pushed back into literally a dark age.
And for several centuries, they remain in that state,
and then in 900, 800 B.C.,
the Greeks slowly begin to crawl
out of this and enter history
The official first date of the written source,
for Greek history is the Olympic games in the 9th century.
So, what you have is this threshold of 300 years
in which the Greeks have forgotten what happened,
and it is precisely why these myths are being formed
and why they are being informed later
when some of the Greeks go to Egypt,
and they're being told
so many things about their own history.
And they're basically told that they are a species
in amnesia, and that these are the things
which they have forgotten.
So, what we're confronted with here
is 300 years of amnesia as such,
but also a larger period of time before that
where you really have to push it even further back in time.
So you have this layering, if that makes sense,
of Greek history, so you have a period of 800 onwards
which we would consider to be ancient Greece as we know it,
then a push to roughly 1200 B.C.,
which is like what I would call prehistory of Greece,
but which now is becoming more and more history
because of the Minoan civilization.
And then, really we are talking about the period
before that when the gods were there.
When really all of this was happening.
When the interbreeding was happening,
and then how slowly prehistory,
the Minoan civilization, Mycenia
is really being played out on Greece.
And so, you have really, a layering of things.
It's like the ancient Greeks do not have to remember
a period before the dark ages,
but they really have to remember a period even before that,
and that is really the hardship of this entire problem
as to why we have grown up with an image of Greece
which is completely different from anything else.
Why we think this is ancient science fiction,
because it's pretty much as if
any family is not trying to tell you something
about your grandfather or your great-grandfather,
but about what happened two centuries before that.
And for two centuries, your family
hasn't said anything about it.
It's the kind of stuff Hollywood movies are made of.
It is indeed.
And why is it do you think that history,
Western history in particular,
is very eager to embrace anything that came out of Greece,
yet not at all eager to embrace what came prior,
for example, out of Egypt, why is this?
Because again, we think that we own them.
We think that they were like us.
We think that they're rational and we think that,
you know, they didn't believe any of these things.
And the best example, and to some extent, that's true.
But it's kinda like taking a snapshot of,
where would you like-
Your history to begin.
It's like what image of America do you wanna have?
Do you wanna have it L.A., California,
New York or somewhere else,
like the heartland of Kentucky so to speak.
And the same thing is with this Greece idea.
Which bit of Greece do you like?
And we tend to focus on Plato on Aristotle,
and it's also where Erich and the book
goes into the idea of Atlantis,
because with Atlantis, you really have
this idea in all of its force.
You have a Greek guy who goes to Egypt
and is basically told, once again,
that they are young, that they are a species in amnesia,
and this is what happened before.
And he's basically saying that there was once
a giant civilization called Atlantis,
which had something to do with Greece,
and that the Greeks have forgotten about this
and specifically, that this prehistory of Greece
is specifically linked with the civilization of Atlantis.
So what happens is Solon,
the Greek dude who goes to Egypt and comes back,
speaks to this mythical civilization,
to his people and they don't believe him.
When Plato writes it down, they don't believe him.
Now the interesting thing is,
and this is where science goes on a different path
than kinda like what the ancient Greeks did,
because what the ancient Greeks do
is they don't believe him.
Some of them go to Egypt and what happens is,
they speak to the same priest who Solon has spoken to,
and they basically say,
"Yeah, we remember this dude coming here.
"That's the kind of wall where we basically
"translated what was there for his purposes.
"You can go ahead and read it yourself
if you can read hieroglyphs,
"and you will find out basically what we told him."
So they jump on the boat back to Greece,
and have to admit that they were wrong,
that Solon was right,
and that Plato while writing about Atlantis,
was indeed relating factual information,
i.e. the Egyptians had this tradition
about a lost civilization of Atlantis.
Now, that is the bit where Western scientists
are uncomfortable with,
or are not asked to elaborate on.
Instead, what they're saying is this.
They say Plato was a guy who was very principled,
and so what he's doing is he's writing
about this idealized society called Atlantis.
Even though Plato himself says
this is fact, this is history,
and he writes it in a book about history.
He's not writing it in a book about philosophy,
he's writing it in a book about history.
So, there is these really two worlds so to speak,
the world of the ancient Greeks,
which is quite clear that this was history.
That they went, that they were skeptical about it,
that they went to Egypt and came back with the facts,
which there is this tradition about Atlantis.
And then our Western interpretation of this,
which is kind of like saying, "It's a morality thing.
"It's nothing really to do with history."
We, and I say we as a civilization,
we as specifically the scientific establishment,
gets away with this because the other aspect
really is less heard of, it is really confined
to the books of Erich, to material which,
so far, hasn't really gotten an airing
on the same par as scientists.
When you look at the big Hollywood productions,
when it comes to Atlantis, so far there has always been
this Side A, Side B, and Side B, which is the skeptics,
have always been away with this idea
that it is all morality and they have
quite often been given the last word.
To a large extent, that is changing,
I mean, Ancient Aliens is a primary example of that,
whereby really what the producers are trying to do
is set out a course and say, "This is what we think it is,
"and now it is over to you, to the audience
"to decide whether this is convincing."
Yes, and I really appreciate
the producers for doing that, because really,
it's the first time on these subjects
they've been given a true voice.
Yes, and you know, because to some extent
Atlantis has nothing to do with ancient aliens,
so far, the topic of Atlantis has never been given
this side A treatment.
Why do you think it is Atlantis,
you just explained a good amount of it,
but do you think there's anything beyond that,
something larger that is creating this...
skepticism, almost denial that a place
such as Atlantis could have existed?
What's the fear around Atlantis in all your studies?
I think it's a general fear.
I think it's a general fear that we don't want to accept
that large bits of our history are unknown,
or are different than what we think it is.
It's very much, there's this beautiful scene,
probably in the book as well, but definitely in the movie
of The Name of the Rose by Umberto Eco,
in which the church is confronted with new documents
which are hidden in this big tower.
And the church basically says,
"Well, everything about religion,
"everything there is to know, we already know.
"And anything else which we find
"is just going to be confirmation
"of what we already know."
And to a large extent, that's where science is as well,
specifically when it comes to history and archaeology.
We know everything.
That's a very arrogant position
for both religion and science to take,
as though the last word has already been said.
Yes, but unfortunately, it is that position they are in.
Everything which is new,
as much as it is hyped,
like a new discovery of this, new this, new that.
They are never really challenging,
they are never really kind of saying,
"Oh my God, look what we just found.
"It is completely shattering our idea about this."
It's a headline which makes great word about how they say,
but it is something along the lines of,
you know, "We though the pins on the hat of whatever
"dated back to 1650, Oh my God, it was 1600!"
It is this slight, almost kinda like you know,
OK, no it's slightly different.
A very good example of this
is actually the dating of the Great Pyramid.
Since the 1980s, there have been carbon dating results
which show that the pyramid is 500 years older than it is.
This is not contested, but if it was to be accepted,
if it was to become part of the Egyptological framework,
what would happen is basically
that the entire timeline has to be revisited,
because for 150 years,
this timeline has been set in stone.
And what we're doing now, really we have to
make allowances for the carbon dating,
is move it slightly here.
OK, a few years here, a few years there, a few years there.
But, Egyptologists aren't able to do this.
They realize that the entire house of cards will fall apart
because it's like saying it's so close,
there is no room for breathing.
Either it's completely wrong or completely, oh, right!
And they have assumed so far that it is completely right,
and now 500 years, small as it may seem,
it makes it appear as if it's completely wrong.
And so what happens is, for 30 years,
they have refused to publish the carbon dating results
which show that the pyramid
is 500 years older for two reasons.
One, it also shows that the pyramid
right next to it is built before rather than,
so the sequence would have to be reversed.
But specifically, they play this game
that because it's not been published
in any scientific journal that it doesn't exist.
So we can just pretend as if it's not there.
And it's the game they play time and time again.
And it's a game they play well, because they have
decided that there are certain rules
with which the scientific game can be played,
and the scientific game is played with the fact
as to whether or not something has been published
in a scientific publication.
To a large extent, this is what happens in Egyptology,
and it is also reason why the entire prehistory
of ancient Greece is banned,
because it touches upon things
which they don't even want to go into.
There is so much more material there
than actually Odyssey of the Gods.
There has been extraordinary amounts of information
as to how, when you start looking into
The Odyssey and The Iliad,
there are like several layers there.
One of the layers is an astronomical layer,
and when you start peeling that layer off,
or like extrapolating that layer,
what you have is extraordinary information
that the ancient Greeks were aware
of the procession, that they even were
placing certain cities in correspondence
with certain constellations.
And all of that, as clear
and as precise as that information is,
is basically something which the people
who are discovering these things,
they are published by popular books,
by popular publishers, because they can't get
that kind of information into the scientific framework,
because guess what?
The academics have decided
that the procession,
that all of this astronomical information
is not something which our ancestors knew.
That this is far later, that the Greeks
only came upon this in the last few centuries
of their civilization rather than that ancestors
would already have been aware of it.
But it's so well-established
throughout Arabic history,
Indian history, Egyptian history.
Those disciplines have been around
for thousands upon thousands of years.
Why would they say the Greeks didn't have access to it?
The ostrich is a very funny instrument
for when it comes to scientists.
It really is, it's almost this denial
and refusal to look at evidence that's placed before them
is only really making academia pretty much...
what is the word I'm looking for?
No longer viable, superfluous,
it's not really relevant anymore.
Well, I think that is, to some extent, the case.
I think they're in a position whereby they have
really pushed it to a point in time
where people are beginning to realize
that they're constantly saying,
"No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no."
You see the pattern, anyone can see the pattern.
Yes, and to a large extent, I think they are
given free reign because there are so many other problems
right now which the world is being faced with.
But I think in the next few years,
what's really going to become apparent,
is that they really have to become answerable.
That they really are being told, "OK, if you wanna have
"a million, or whatever a project is going to cost,
" you really need to give us information,
"you need to give us some of the answers."
And so far, they're able
to basically jump through the hoops,
which kind of like other people
are trying to push them into,
of saying, "OK, you really need to be accountable for this."
This isn't science as a whole.
There are obviously areas of science,
when it comes to laboratory, or chemistry, or physics,
They're different, yeah.
where there's really kind of like, you know,
however abhorrent some of these things
sometimes go wrong at night,
at least there is some control.
But pretty much when it comes to archaeology and history,
what you find is a very liberal science of people
who basically can choose and do what they want,
and say, "Oh, well, we were gonna go
"over that for next year, then we're gonna go there."
And wherever they dig, if they do find something,
it's sometimes takes 10, 15, 20 years
before they write up this material.
Well now going back, I mean,
who knows, it may be that it's time for a whole new genre
of sciences to begin popping up, and they are.
Actually, they are which is interesting in itself.
Now, going back to that story which you talked about,
about Solon and speaking
about the continent of Atlantis,
and they were very detailed in their description of it,
which I found interesting.
It was as though the detail was actually
giving credibility to the notion that it did exist,
and one of the things they were mentioning
is that a lot of the Greek names
were actually derived from what took place on Atlantis.
He speaks of that, and very, very advanced
agricultural practices, things we don't even do now
were said to have existed at that time.
If you care to go on a little bit more about the nature
of what Atlantis was revealed to be by Solon
so people understand this isn't just a vague thought.
Well, as you say, there are details about Atlantis
which really make it clear that the information
which Solon and Plato were writing about,
really has very little to do with morality.
The dimensions of Atlantis, how there are,
what the walls are built with,
how deep or wide the canals are.
There's little morality to it.
It is straightforward information which kinda goes like
OK, here it is, what we know about it.
This is what the Egyptians told us,
and here it is for our ancestors to take with it.
Now, that is very interesting information for us,
because those people who are inclined
to say Atlantis is a real civilization
are trying to pinpoint it left, right, and center.
And so, they will come and say it's Thera,
or it's Crete, or it is this or it is that.
But what you're really confronted with
is a land mass which is roughly the size of France,
the width of France, where you have to find a place for.
So it's not just something which you can put anywhere,
as historians are doing.
The value of this is, is that we really are confronted
not just with a lost civilization,
which scientists might try to put on Thera,
but really with a vast civilization
with lots of earthworks involved.
Canals were dug, walls were built,
an ancient city was there.
All of these things suggest that this was
a civilization which lasted a few thousands of years,
precisely what the ancient accounts are saying.
And so, what you have is an agricultural civilization.
You find that they have definitely an ability
when it comes to metalworking,
that they have an ability with seafaring,
that they have an organized society,
which actually seems to be following the decimal system
in the sense that there are ten kingdoms.
There is a line of inheritance which is interesting.
The line of inheritance suggests that it is very much
on par with ancient Egypt, and actually on par
with some Celtic tribes of Western Europe as well.
So all of these details really make it far more apparent
that what we're dealing with here
is a civilization which is real,
and the information which we're getting,
is of such a nature that there is
very little room for morality in there.
A line of inheritance is, you can say that,
"OK, maybe we should've made more role for women,"
and that is something which Plato is trying to say.
But he could have said it far more directly
than inserting little details about how Atlantis
was somehow descended to the female lineage as well.
In all of these things, what you're confronted with
are historical details rather than morality details.
And this is precisely what Erich
is also trying to say in his book.
The book at some point actually says
"OK, let's not make this chapter
"about where Atlantis precisely was.
"Let's instead look at what Atlantis was
"rather than where it was."
And I think that's a good take.
I think because it does show that
what we're confronted with here
once again is fact, not fiction.
And the more you start trying to make a debate
as to where Atlantis is, the less interest
you can generate into what Atlantis was.
I think that was definitely a point where Erich
wanted to underline into saying,
"I really wanted this to be about a lost civilization,
"with lost technology rather than
"the average take on Atlantis."
And, even so he does bring in
a little bit of evidence which stated that
about 18,500 years ago, the water levels
in the region of the Mediterranean
were about 115 feet lower, for example.
So, just kinda throwing in there, things do change.
And sometimes it can something as simple
as a shift in the levels of the water, for example.
You can look where you want,
and many authors have, as you already pointed out.
Many authors have tried to pinpoint where it is,
but again, there's this documentation of a very,
very specific kind of society, and then again,
one of the things I find interesting
about Convoluted Universe by Dolores,
is all these different people under hypnosis
are bringing in pixels of the same story
about what life was like there at that time.
And that, it's kind of interesting
even though it's not a recognized science,
but people wakening up within their own consciousness
and having information come to the fore,
be it through hypnosis or whatnot,
dreamtime, is really starting to piece
the picture together more solidly.
How do you feel, and how does Erich feel
about this kind of personal conscious
type of evidence coming forward?
Well, Erich is very much a man of his time,
and he has a very specific mission,
which is to really tell the world that history is wrong.
I mean, it's a title of one of his books,
and it's something which he really wants to bring out there.
Erich is also a man who really writes
to the billions of people,
your average Joe in the street,
and to which he wants to say,
you know,"OK, wake up."
But his waking up is very much of what I would call
a fundamental waking up, of saying,
reality, our history is wrong,
and we really should start looking into that.
So the consciousness aspect of it
is something which he's interested in,
but it's not part of what I would call his core mission.
If people walk away a better human being,
and if people realize that there is such a thing as mind,
and that our ancestors were far more spiritual
than we think they are, that is great.
But it's not his core mission.
In my case, I'm obviously of the next generation.
My dad and Erich have roughly the same age,
and to a large extent, I am part
of that consciousness mission.
I do think that it becomes apparent
that our ancestors were saying an awful lot
of these things through a spiritual context,
through a consciousness network almost, so to speak.
And one of the things I think which we also have to realize
is that the ancient Greeks of 500 B.C.,
even though science is claiming them as us,
even though they are saying they're exactly like us,
that's not the case.
What people don't seem
to realize too prominently
is the fact that in roughly 150 B.C.,
when there is this transition
from ancient Greece to Rome,
and transitions within Rome as well,
that they emperor basically said that all the oracles,
everything to do with directly experiencing spirituality
was shut down.
Specifically, this is important,
because all of these oracles, even some of them
in ancient Italy, in ancient Rome itself,
were operated by the Greeks.
So things like Baia, which is a very famous oracle
which Robert Temple-
Which one?
Baia, which is around Naples.
Robert Temple has written a book about it,
and has made a TV documentary about it.
It's just one example of how throughout the Roman Empire,
all of these sites were closed off.
Some of them were kept open secretly
by people, by locals who continued to do so.
But in the case of Baia, what you actually had
is that thousands of tons of sand and stones
and whatever they could find
were pushed into the subterranean corridors
because they didn't want this to continue.
And this to continue was precisely people
having direct experiences of spirituality.
That is something which we tend to forget.
The ancient Greeks had this,
the ancient Greeks speak of the oracles.
Delphi is notorious for its direct experience of the Pythia,
who is your go-between to the world of the gods.
This world of the gods is to some extent,
a different god that the god
who was physically present here.
In my book, I make this distinction as well.
I say that there is a non-human intelligence out there,
which we can contact on a metaphysical level,
but even though that some of them
have been physically present here.
And I think it's an end universe,
and I think, for my generation, or specifically,
my mission, that it is to be made clear
that ET just wasn't here in a physical form,
that ET can be here and was here in a non-physical form,
and that, to some extent, the ancient Greeks
who even though they were talking about
physical beings and physical interactions with deities,
that there was also a spiritual aspect to their dimension.
And so once again, whereas you might get the impression
that what Erich is doing is that everything turning into ET,
basically what Erich is doing is he's only
turning those things into ET which he's writing about.
Certain things are off-topic,
or he doesn't discuss certain things,
because to a large extent, they are not part
of what he's trying to explain.
Simply because he doesn't talk about them,
it doesn't mean that Erich is saying,
"Well, everything is ET."
The things he writes about are ET,
the other ones are basically things he doesn't write about,
because a book is limited to a certain amount of pages.
And so, he is specifically focusing on that,
he is specifically focusing on physical contact,
physical legacy of ET contact, but I think definitely
my part of this story, as I say in my book as well,
is to also show that there is
a consciousness aspect to this.
I think when you start comparing the two,
or putting the two together,
that's when you're beginning to realize
what ancient Greece really was all about.
The overall principle of ancient Greece,
as so many other civilizations,
is basically the fact that reality was far more complex
than we give it credence today.
And far more sophisticated, even technologically.
There's a reference, in fact, let me pick this book up,
because I read this before,
and this is talking about the destruction of the society.
OK, which page is that?
Oh here it is, right here.
From the Mahabharata, it says...
essentially, that they're talking about weaponry of the time
And again, the reason I think this is also relevant
is because we've entered a time
where the same technologies more or less exist today.
Similar, even if they're maybe not quite as sophisticated.
These highly destructive technologies exist today,
and by being able to bring back the historical milieu
of what happened and what occurred
around the destruction of these great civilizations,
these serve as really wonderful sign posts
for where we are right now.
This is what it was saying,
"The unknown weapon is radiant lightning,
"a frightful messenger of death,
"which turns to ashes all who belong
"to the Vrishni and the Andhaka.
"The bodies consumed by fire were unrecognizable.
"Those who escaped with their lives
"lost their hair and their nails.
"Clay pots broke without cause.
"The burns turned white.
"In a short while, food became poisonous.
"The lightning fell to Earth and became fine dust."
Well, sounds like a nuclear explosion, and in fact,
I've done a little bit of journeying myself
over the last 30 years, a lot of it actually.
And ended up in this exact situation, watching this occur,
and many thousands of people now that are waking up
have seen the same thing.
So, how do you fold this in,
in terms of our need to know?
Well, in that case, The Mahabarata is very interesting,
because, I tackled it in my book.
It's like you have this layering, you have this,
some people say, "OK, some of these interpretations,
"some of these Manith manuals which exist,
"written at the end of the 19th century.
"They're not as old as we think they are."
Well, something written down
doesn't necessarily mean it was invented.
It just means the time in which something was written down.
Also, the end of the 19th century, remember,
the Wright Brothers still hadn't taken to the skies,
and things like nuclear explosions
or even jet propulsion-
Had't been conceived of yet.
Didn't really exist,
so it's still that old error I would say,
pre-going, doing things which are extraordinary.
So, what we have in the Mahabharata
is this description very much I think,
and this is why it ends up in the book,
of a people who are being told
that there was a time before them.
When the gods were doing things in the sky, on Earth,
and to a large extent, our ancestors were there,
but they were kinda going, "OK, what is all of this?"
And so, we described certain things,
we have memories of certain things.
Now in the case of India,
there is one specific point of interest
which is, and in the Ancient Alien Question I tackle this,
whereby the question is, if these things happened,
where is the evidence for this happening.
Because if it is nuclear, we know that nuclear weapons
just nuclear waste, has 26,000 lifespan,
just to kinda, even do something with it.
So, there should be evidence for this,
because it is roughly within that 26,000 years.
Even if it's 100,000 years, we should still find something.
And there is a place in Southern India
where you really have evidence of
increased radioactivity.
Now, the Indian government and state governments
have tried to explain this somewhat away.
They have been trying to say,
"Well, maybe it was radioactive waste
"which was put there without proper authorization."
The answer is, they have never been able to explain it.
There was radioactivity there,
nobody knows why, how it got there,
but it is in a place linked with one of these ancient epics.
The question then is has it been there
for thousands of years?
The other aspect is that the Indus Valley Civilization,
with places like Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa,
which is now in Pakistan,
really shows evidence of people lying in the street,
holding hands, a mother with her child holding hands.
So whatever happened there was very sudden,
very immediate, and science hasn't really
been able to explain what happened here.
It could have been something as simple as volcanic eruption.
But the answer is nobody knows,
nobody has been able to really date it.
And of course, because science "knows" that
there is no such thing as radioactivity in our past,
none of these civilizations, none of these places
have been checked for remains of
nuclear or radioactivity.
So, it's an open-ended question as to
whether or not somebody's going to find this,
and in the case again, of the Indus Valley Civilization,
what we have is the fact that this is placed
in Pakistan, which isn't primary grounds
for archaeological research at the moment
because of all the problems there are in that region.
To some extent, it's almost is
as if science is on borrowed time.
They can get away with certain things
for a little while longer, but at some point,
they will have to address some of these things.
And then, when they have to
really start addressing these things,
it'll be very quickly become apparent I think,
that there is validation for the fact
that these things have indeed happened in the past.
Then the floodgates open.
Then all of history more or less is up for review,
because these anomalies occur all over the world.
The evidence, archaeologically, for giants
that have existed upon the earth, exist all over the world,
and sooner or later, they're going to have to explain
where these came from.
Yeah, and so far, they're getting away with it
by having these giant skulls,
some of which exist in Nevada,
put them in small museums and then,
every two to three years, some of them "disappear."
But you know, there is a time of reckoning.
There is a time when people are really going to say,
"Well, what about this, what about that?"
Because the general public is becoming very informed.
This idea that science is going to be held accountable
isn't just some wish, it is really because
the general public is informed.
And to a large extent, they're becoming informed
because of what Erich is doing,
of going into certain things in extreme detail
in such a format that it is accessible, but also memorable.
Not memorable in the sense that,
what Erich is doing is by default heroic
on par with the ancient Greeks themselves,
but memorable in the sense that people can easily remember
and when they're confronted
with statements of a different nature,
say, "Ehh, that's not the way it is."
Yeah, it's a very exciting time
to be alive for that exact reason.
Just to kind of hop back a little bit to the gods
that are spoken of throughout
the Grecian texts.
Let's talk a little bit about Zeus,
who is the father of the gods,
Apollo, and then where this starts crossing over
where these same characters show up throughout history,
or are related to other
famous characters throughout history.
Can you speak to that for just a moment
because we start then seeing almost a lineage
of a certain type of being that may even have appeared
or reincarnated throughout history.
This idea of gods returning is something
which you see time and time again.
You also see a template which is cross-cultural.
You see the civilizing deity,
you see the god who gives certain information.
Hephaestus, the god of fire,
the role of Ka with the ancient Egyptians.
You have certain things which seem
to have been filled in.
And it's a very interesting question as to what is going on.
Is there one central source,
and all these stories originate from there?
Or is there, to some extent, a normality to it,
in the sense that there will be the guy
who tells you about mathematics.
There will be the guy who tells you about astronomy.
And because it's a clear science,
they're all going to tell you the same story.
That is a question I think which
we can't answer at this moment in time.
This idea of reincarnation is definitely something
which you see specifically in religious doctrines,
that somehow Jesus is going to return,
that certain other creatures
are going to return in the past.
Obviously, the most clear example
of this is the Dalai Lama.
The Tibetan tradition basically says
that their leader almost upon death,
five minutes later is going to be reborn
somewhere in another body, and will be
once again, has to be selected and identified,
and taken and recognized,
and will become their leader by default.
I think with the ancient Greeks, it's different.
I think there is an awful lot of potential.
And what you see is clear in the notion
of this access to the underworld.
It is this notion that really,
it is up to a human being sometimes
to become validated,
to really say, "OK, you might have learned your lessons.
"You might have been this, you might have been that,"
but to some extent, that's only part of it.
What are you now?
Are you ready in this lifetime to embrace your mission?
And if you so are, that's great,
but simply because you might be
whoever you were in a previous life,
doesn't by default do this for you.
This is where the texts come about,
and sometimes, depending on where you are.
Sometimes it is a new soul
who is asked to step into old shoes,
or sometimes it is supposed to be
an old soul who's supposed to see
whether his old boots are still fitting him or her.
And, in the case of this descent into the underworld,
you really see that, because that is like the central part.
To an extent, it is the new hero to be,
whether a new soul or an old soul,
to make contact with the ancestor and to be validated,
and if he or she succeeds in this,
then you can go into the new world.
You can do your mission.
And of course, this is the primary importance
of the oracles, because the oracles were precisely that.
It was for the souls, reincarnated or otherwise,
to really have this A-ha moment
or whatever you wanna call it, this test
whereby years of initiation, years of preparation
was going to lead to a confrontation with an enabler,
a woman or a man or both who was going to say,
"OK, reality is far more complex,
" reality is far more this than that."
All of this knowledge which you
have taken on has just become wisdom.
Are you unafraid of death?
Are you unafraid of experiencing this initiation experience?
And if the answer was yes,
then really, you went on from there,
and you were recognized by society
as this enlightened human being
who spoke directly to the gods,
who was able to mediate between this place
and the former one or the one to come,
which is a different one.
You had been identified as this medium, literally,
and I guess I think this is once again,
the importance that, in the sense that,
whoever you spoke to,
whether it was that ET, or a live ET somewhere else,
it didn't really matter, you had stepped into your role.
I think an interesting lesson there is also
for the ancient Greeks, what they're saying,
it's not just to do with lineage.
It's not just to do with the fact that,
whatever percentage of your blood or your DNA
might have been related to your ancestors
who were ET
or part ET, part something else.
You, yourself, within, from the day you were born
to the moment you are there,
need to have the right equipment.
In Christian tradition, this is obviously the Grail story,
whereby we have Percival who is of the right blood,
but on a number on occasions, fails.
To some extent, the Grail story isn't Christian as such,
the Greek stories, the Greek heroes
who fail in their mission, or the Greek heroes
who succeed in their mission.
Sometimes Greek heroes who have less blood,
the right blood in them, but make up with it
with all the right equipment in the sense that
they have the right metaphysical attributes.
This is where really the big picture
of Greek mythology comes about,
and why we think all these stories have a morality to them.
Morality is important, but it's just one aspect of it.
And morality aside, there is a certain type
of innate power and fire in these beings
that we don't recognize in ourselves today.
And, as I understand it and remember it,
Nietzsche was the one who put forth
that Christianity actually had begun to make men very meek,
and he put forth that if men, as in I assume men and women,
I'm going to make that assumption,
could begin taking back the traits of the Greek gods,
we would begin finding our true potential as human beings.
What I think that is, this thing about being tested,
this initiation thing, has slowly ebbed away.
When you look at Christianity as a religion,
it just tells you a bit of water and a bit of baptism
and various other things, and that's it.
There is no real great test for you to perform.
But in ancient societies, it was,
and the confrontation with the oracle
was the sum of everything.
Kings feared going there, kings would consult them
when important rules were being made,
and I think what is interesting about that time frame,
is the fact that there is this division
between men and women, but that, how should I put this,
the women helped the men into becoming man.
What happens in 150 B.C., when this edict comes about,
is that it basically says "Women, you should
not only be trained to help the man do this,"
and so, even though it has a direct effect on women,
it also has a direct effect on men.
And the end result is really that this initiation,
this really becoming all-powerful,
both as a woman and as a man,
is denied because, pretty much after the age of 12,
there is nothing there for any of us to do anymore.
There is no stepping into your manhood so to speak,
or in your womanhood, and that is something
which was there up until that moment in time.
Really after 150 B.C., that begins to slowly ebb away
until a moment in time
when it really becomes institutionalized.
I think the reason why the role,
the model of Mary Magdalene is so interesting
for so many people but specifically women today,
is because what you have there is a woman
who is very close to the 150 B.C. timeframe,
who to all intents and purposes,
was still raised within that tradition,
who lives within the Roman Empire,
but not really at the core of the Roman Empire.
So she gets away with certain things
of the old way of doing these things.
And you can also see that she and Jesus
are very much on par, and are really conforming to a model,
and that what you see happening is obviously that
as soon as Christianity becomes Roman,
the very first thing which happens is that
the Roman emperors will start
excising all of these things away.
And it is true that Mary Magdalene
is the first victim of this exercise,
because it is too apparent.
Obviously, Christianity can't do away with Jesus Christ.
So then can only do away with certain things
whereby Jesus Christ and the role of Mary Magdalene
as the initiator, they can strip away that layer.
But very much what you see
what the church is doing with Jesus,
it's like the fact that he goes to Britain.
All of these things, anything which shows you
that he was part and parcel of a tradition,
that he was being prepared to making this step,
of stepping into his role, and you know,
what has happened is that Christianity has just said,
"Oh, it was recognized that,
" John the Baptist recognized him,
"and John the Baptist doing this thing,
"is recognition of Jesus as such."
While you can almost see that
an entirely different story was happening there,
and that the entire story has been removed,
and that what we really have is this nonsensical thing
of a guy doing something.
"Oh yeah, you're the one which we're talking about."
It's a great honor for John the Baptist,
but unfortunately, it's probably very far away
from what really happened at that moment in time.
Exactly, so maybe Nietzsche had a point.
Maybe we do need to go back and start embracing
some of the power of these original archetypes even.
Because we are beginning to awaken
to that aspect of ourselves,
and so, these really point the way.
You can say whether it's through myth,
or whether this is real pixels of history.
Maybe the time has arrived to start essentially
embracing that aspect of ourselves through those stories.
I think that's absolutely true.
Again, we're thinking about the ancient science fiction,
but really the fact of the matter is,
that it is not science fiction.
But what you look at, what's coming out of Hollywood,
you see that there is so much material there,
whether it's in comic book format.
Whether it is just retelling
these ancient myths into modern clothing,
but there is a need for us to be confronted
with these ancient accounts and to do these kind of things
Until the moment when they once again
become part and parcel,
until the moment in time when we're beginning to
have the liberty to experiencing spirituality directly,
it'll seep through in so many ways.
Through X-Box or Wii gameplay, watching movies,
whatever it is, reading about them.
All of these things are really waiting
to enter once again into our consciousness,
and it is very much what an archetype is.
It is something which is basically such a part of us,
which is dying to manifest itself,
and we either are doing this consciously,
or the archetype will just push itself through and say,
"Hey, you guys need it, here I am."
On that note, thank you very much for,
not only serving as the surrogate and the voice for Erich,
but also for putting your own textures and tones into it,
and your information and research.
Thank you very much, Philip.
Thank you for having me.
Again, the title of Erich von Daniken's book
is Odyssey of the Gods, which can be found
at all major book sellers.
Meanwhile, the subject of extraterrestrial life on earth
has been the subject of many of our other interviews,
including those with Barbara Lamb, Kim Carlson,
James Gilliland, and Stephen Bassett.
Each brings a different perspective to the table.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(mysterious and pensive synthesizer music)